README.md, before:

# categoryCompare2

A Bioconductor package for meta analysis of high-throughput datasets using 
enriched feature annotations instead of just the features themselves.

Note that this is a rewrite of the categoryCompare package. For more information about how things have changed and why, please see [this poster](https://figshare.com/articles/categoryCompare_v2_0/1427435).

## API

This version is mostly complete and works for **many** full analyses. The user facing API is expected to be close to fixed, especially for the core functionality. Some methods need actual `S4` or `R6` based objects and methods, but we expect that the function calls themselves will remain the same. 

## To Do

Things that are still needed include:

* Wrapper for initial analysis when given feature data and annotations
* Example for importing the users own annotations
* Integration of [`GOCats`](https://github.com/MoseleyBioinformaticsLab/GOcats) Python library for summarizing ontologies
* Better exploration of features that are linked to specific annotations, including the original data associated with the features

## Documentation

The [Vignette](https://github.com/MoseleyBioinformaticsLab/categoryCompare2/blob/master/vignettes/categoryCompare_vignette_v2_visnetwork.Rmd) provides a description of the thinking behind this package as well as a toy example for demonstration purposes.

## Installation

Installation of this package from Github requires the [remotes][remotesLink]
package.

```r
install.packages("remotes")
library(remotes)
install_github("rmflight/categoryCompare2")
```

[remotesLink]: https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/remotes/index.html "remotes"

## Citation

Flight RM, Harrison BJ, Mohammad F, Bunge MB, Moon LDF, Petruska JC and Rouchka EC (2014). .CATEGORYCOMPARE, an analytical tool based on feature annotations.
_Frontiers in Genetics_. [link](http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fgene.2014.00098)

Commit message:

added mac specific installation instructions to get homebrew installed and install the xquartz for Cairo graphics

README.md, after:

# categoryCompare2

A Bioconductor package for meta analysis of high-throughput datasets using 
enriched feature annotations instead of just the features themselves.

Note that this is a rewrite of the categoryCompare package. For more information about how things have changed and why, please see [this poster](https://figshare.com/articles/categoryCompare_v2_0/1427435).

## API

This version is mostly complete and works for **many** full analyses. The user facing API is expected to be close to fixed, especially for the core functionality. Some methods need actual `S4` or `R6` based objects and methods, but we expect that the function calls themselves will remain the same. 

## To Do

Things that are still needed include:

* Wrapper for initial analysis when given feature data and annotations
* Example for importing the users own annotations
* Integration of [`GOCats`](https://github.com/MoseleyBioinformaticsLab/GOcats) Python library for summarizing ontologies
* Better exploration of features that are linked to specific annotations, including the original data associated with the features

## Documentation

The [Vignette](https://github.com/MoseleyBioinformaticsLab/categoryCompare2/blob/master/vignettes/categoryCompare_vignette_v2_visnetwork.Rmd) provides a description of the thinking behind this package as well as a toy example for demonstration purposes.

## Installation

Installation of this package from Github requires the [remotes][remotesLink]
package.

```r
install.packages("remotes")
library(remotes)
install_github("MoseleyBioinformaticsLab/categoryCompare2")
```

[remotesLink]: https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/remotes/index.html "remotes"

### Mac Installation

There is one issue with installation on MacOS, and that is the {Cairo} package.
This is actually due to having to have `xquartz` installed.
The easiest way I can find to install it is using homebrew.
In a terminal, you can do:

```
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
brew install --cask xquartz

R
install.packages("Cairo") # skip if already installed
library(Cairo)
```

Hopefully that worked fine, and now you should be able to use all the functionality in {categoryCompare2}.

## Citation

Flight RM, Harrison BJ, Mohammad F, Bunge MB, Moon LDF, Petruska JC and Rouchka EC (2014). .CATEGORYCOMPARE, an analytical tool based on feature annotations.
_Frontiers in Genetics_. [link](http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fgene.2014.00098)
